------------------
non augment positive

know exact outcome of dice
play faster
felt responsible for the outcome of the dice
felt like traditional board game
wiggle room in interpretation of the ryles
slight bending of rules for more realistic and entertaining gameplay
player decisions were more fluid
being able to check whether you were in range without waiting for the system to update
not having to worry about glitches
it was a little more hands on
it was easier to do certain things, like skip a turn or make mutal agreements on rulings or confusion
keeps players actively involved in gameplay

------------------
non augment negative

time consuming
measuring is tedious
difficult to keep up with everything during combat
in dense soldier cluster there were so many attacks made that we probably lost count at some point and either attacked too many times or too few
some subjectivity with measurements
much slower combat (actually rolling the dice each time and making sure every combination of soldiers is accounted for)
a slightly sloppy feel where i felt that i could be making mistakes
occasional confusion (even about whose turn it was)
dice kept falling off table
sometimes it was tricky remembering which pairs of soldiers had already fired, but we came up with a strategy that mostly solved that.
while we made decisions, they were not necessarily the correct ones in terms of the rules
when many attacks  [happen] at the same time, it made the game stop and not be fun


------------------
augment positive

visualizations were easy to understand
can see where you're going
didn't have to do any work
projected scenery made me feel like i was playing a game and not a probability simulator
trust computer
no disagreeement between playesr since there was an ultimate referee
visually it was far more interesting
no human errors
combat was faster
easy to see how far you can move
the arrows for combat were amusing to watch
distances were clearly marked as well as line of sight and current shooting pairs.
never unclear about whose turn it was or what could be done
much easier to establish movement strategy
considerably quicker pace
it fixed the "wait did he shoot yet?" problem.  
it allowed you to focus on the gameplay and not the math behind it
no questioning who was on higher ground
more visually stimulating

------------------
autment negative

waiting for recalculation
turns were slow
restriction in terrain placemen because of projection (vision)
minor issues identifying scenery
don't know the reason the soldier was disabled
moving pieces slightly out of range made it take longer sometimes
hard to see line of sight sometimes
some setup bugs
some rules implemented questionable
occasional glitches
things not getting detected for being in certain positions
wall blockage issue with camera, couldn't move too close to walls.
blind spots forced us to simplify our first terrain design a but, but that's a natural consequence of using a single camera.  
took the player engagement away a bit.  watched action happen rather than rolling the dice. takes away your feeling of involvement.
switching between turns was a little slow.

------------------




preferred traditional

2 (can still pretend you have skill at rolling dice)

38 (but only because the augmented system was still new and rough, .
if the augmented reality was more refined, i think it would fix many
of the problems that mitigated the benegits)


preferred augmented

1,7,19,24,25,44,49,58,62,67,79,96,97, 98,99


tie
82



